---
title: Character Creation
description: Learn how to create a character for the Spacedoor! system.
layout: layout.njk
---

# Character Creation

Creating a character is designed to be very simple, so you can get up and
running quickly.

## Choosing a Character Concept

The possibilities are endless for your character. You can be human, alien,
robot, ghost, or whatever you can possibly dream up in an infinite universe. Are
you a civilian or are you in the military? Are you from Earth? Did you used to
serve the enemy? How did you get recruited to be part of the Spacedoor program?

## Setting Your Stats

Your character has 5 core stats, which will determine how good or bad they are
at certain skills. You will need to assign each stat a dice with a different
number of sides. The more sides on the dice, the better your character is at
that stat.

The stats are:

- Charm
- Cool
- Sharp
- Tough
- Technobabble

And the dice are:

- d4
- d6
- d8
- d10
- d12

You can [read more about stats and skills](/stats-and-skills) to inform your
choices, but it's better to choose stats that make sense for your character
concept than trying to optimize everything.

### Secondary Stats

In addition to the core stats, you will need to rank how good your character is
at Offense, Defense, and Healing. Where you rank these will determine some
stats/dice used in combat.

Where you rank Offense will determine your Damage Die, which can be a d4, d6, or
a d8. For Defense, you're determining your Damage Threshold, which will be
either 2, 4, or 6. For Healing, you're determining your Healing Die, which will
be either d4, d6, or d8.

### Calculated Stats

Once you've set your core stats, you can fill in some calculated stats. If you
do this on the site, you shouldn't have to worry about it. It should just show
up on your character sheet.

- Your Hit Point (HP) max is half of your Tough die's highest value, plus 7.
- Each stat will have a Difficulty Class (DC) which is half of the stat die's
  highest value, plus 2. DCs are used to set the difficulty that enemies need to
  try to beat.

### Vulnerabilities, Resistances, and Immunities

There are a variety of [status effects](/status-effects) and [damage
types](/damage-types) that you can encounter in the game. When creating your
character, choose 3 that you are vulnerable to, 2 that you are resistant to, and
1 that you are immune to.

## An Example Character

Let's say we wanted to play as a character that shoots first and asks questions
never. Right away, that implies maximum Tough, so let's set that to a d12.

They're probably not super smart or tech-savvy, so let's give them low values
for Sharp and Technobabble, maybe a d6 and d4, respectively. That leaves Cool
and Charm. It probably makes sense to make Charm lower for this character, so
let's set Charm as a d8 and Cool as a d10.

That leaves our stats like so:

- Charm: d8
- Cool: d10
- Sharp: d6
- Tough: d12
- Technobabble: d4

For our secondary stats, lets put Offense as best, Healing as worst, and Defense
in the middle. That will give them a d8 Damage Die, a d4 Healing Die, and a
Damage Threshold of 4.

And based on that, we can figure out our calculated stats. Since their Tough is
a d12, they will have 13 HP to start with. Since their Charm is higher than
their Sharp, we'll use that to get their AP max, which will start at 3. And
since their Cool is a d10, their DT is 4.

It also means we have the following DCs:

- Charm: 6
- Cool: 7
- Sharp: 5
- Tough: 8
- Technobabble: 4

Let's make them vulnerable to the Berserk status, Psychic damage, and Water
damage, since those could be fun to role-play. For resistances, let's make them
resistant to the Stunned status and Poison damage. And let's make them immune to
Bludgeoning damage, since they're so tough as it is.

We did it! We now have a perfectly playable character whose stats fit with their
overall concept.
