---
title: GM Tips and Tricks
description: Learn some things that will help you run your game as a new GM.
layout: layout.njk
---

# GM Tips and Tricks

For all the GMs out there who want to create the best experience for their
players, here's a little advice to get you started.

## Listen to Your Players

This is the most important thing. Before you even start your first session, you
should be listening to what your players are interested in, and the kinds of
things they want to do with their characters.

You can take notes during sessions and incorporate details that players express
interest in for future adventures. On the other hand, if your players seem bored
or uninterested in certain aspects of the game, that lets you know that you
should emphasize those aspects less in the future. This is a collaborative game,
so players will have as much input in building the world and the narrative as
you do, if not even more.

And if your players express discomfort or let you know that they would rather
not deal with a topic during gameplay, you have to respect that and drop
anything sensitive that you might have planned. You can talk about this
beforehand and make a list of things to avoid, or you can use a safety system so
players can veto anything if they become uncomfortable.

## Have a Session Zero

Rather than doing all the world-building up front and then presenting it to the
players in the first session, it's better to have a loose set of ideas that you
can try out before getting started in earnest.

In a session zero, you can help out with character creation, workshop
backstories and world details as you go, and try out different abilities or
character traits before committing to any ideas.

This will help you figure out the tone of the game, how your players and their
characters will interact with the world, and give you some ideas for how to
design the world in a way that suits your players. For example, if you try out
combat in the session zero, and no one is into it, you can pivot your later
sessions to be more focused on social interactions, or you can pare down the
combat system to be less number-crunchy so your players stay engaged.

## You Can Fudge the Rules

This isn't meant as a free pass to completely ignore the rules, but for cases
where there aren't any clear resolutions in the rules, you can make judgment
calls as long as they seem fair and your players agree. The rules are meant to
help mediate any conflicts, but they aren't perfect or comprehensive, so you can
fill the gaps as needed.

You can also change some rules or add your own if it works better for your game.
If you want to keep it simple, you can decide that character upgrades are super
rare or not even a part of the game. You can restrict healing if your world is
meant to be highly lethal, or you can ignore HP entirely and resolve fights
based on narrative combat.

## Have Different Hooks for Different Players

It's unlikely that everyone you play with will have the same interests. Some
might be more interested in the social aspects of the game, some might be really
into combat, and some might just want to advance the plot. Whenever you're
setting up an adventure, make sure there's a little something for everybody,
based on the interests of the people at the table.

You can sort of break it down into hooks. Emotional hooks are character-specific
and help players get invested in the story because something important to their
character is happening. Plot hooks advance the story in some way, whether that
be to complete a mission or further the overarching plot of the campaign.
Treasure hooks offer some sort of reward for players who really like leveling up
and getting loot.

Once you figure out which hooks work for your players, you can combine them to
set up future adventures and keep your players invested as the game goes on.
