---
title: Playing the Game
description: Learn about the different modes of gameplay and how basic role-playing games work.
layout: layout.njk
---

# Playing the Game

There are two main modes in which you play the game: Exploration and Combat.

## Exploration

During Exploration, the GM will describe settings, portray characters, and set
up challenges or puzzles for the players to overcome. Players can also initiate
scenes or plan out what they want to do.

This is typically a lower stakes mode of playing, and the rules can be played
fairly loosely. Most likely you will be making skill checks as needed, but for
the most part, it's just roleplaying according to what's happening in the game.

## Combat

Combat is more involved than Exploration, and there's much more order to the
rules (that's why most of the character upgrades are related to combat). As
combat starts, each player will roll Initiative to determine the turn order,
then each player will take their turn and do what they can within the action
economy.

### Action Economy

On a player's turn, they can use an Action, a Bonus Action, and a Reaction. If
you want to get battle maps involved, you can also include Movement, but this
game is designed to be a little more theater of the mind, so there aren't any
specific rules for how far you can move, or what range your attacks have, or
anything like that.

The most common action is Attack, but there are others that you can access by
buying them from the [upgrade shop](/upgrades). They will often require spending
Action Points (AP) to perform them or improve their efficacy.

Bonus Actions are typically support actions that can help others or give you an
extra edge in combat. Reactions are slightly different, as you can use them in
response to something that happens, even if it isn't your turn. You only have
one Reaction per round of combat, though, and it resets on your turn.

### Attacking

Unlike D&D and other similar systems, there is no roll to attack, where if you
roll poorly, you miss. In this game, you pick a target (or targets) and just
roll damage.

To balance this out, each character has a Damage Threshold (DT). If they are
dealt less damage than the threshold, then they don't lose any Hit Points (HP).
If the damage is greater than or equal to their DT, they lose the full amount of
HP based on the damage.

### Saving Throws

There are also offensive Actions other than Attack that work a little
differently. The mechanics of the Action should be described in the Upgrade card
for it, but typically the target will need to roll to beat a certain difficulty
as determined by the aggressor's stats.

For example, to avoid falling asleep if an enemy is trying to inflict the
"Asleep" status, a player would need to roll Sharp to beat the aggressor's Charm
DC.

### Healing

There are upgrades that make healing easier, but by default, the way to heal
during combat is to make a Medicine check (difficulty of 8), then roll your
Healing dice if you succeed.

### Death Saves and Dying

When you reach 0 HP, you are knocked out and cannot perform any Actions, Bonus
Actions, or Reactions. At the beginning of your turn, you will roll your Tough
die to determine whether you get better, remain the same, or get worse.

When knocked out, you are stable. While stable, if you roll the highest value of
your Tough die, you recover 1 HP and are back in the game. If you roll a 1, you
enter critical condition.

When in critical condition, if you roll your Tough die's highest value, you
become stable again. However, if you roll a 1, your character will die (that may
not be the end of it, though, there are plenty of sci-fi ways to bring back the
dead).

On in-between values (neither the highest or lowest values), you remain in the
same condition, which will buy your allies time to heal you before your next
turn.
